README.md, before:

## Intro
Open project of Embedded system laboratory that is used for studying embedded.

## Hardware
The project is based on nRF52840 SoC. Board PCA10059 (USB Dongle) rev 2.0.0.

### nRF52840 SoC

The nRF52840 SoC is the most advanced member of the nRF52 Series. It meets the challenges of sophisticated applications that need protocol concurrency and a rich and varied set of peripherals and features.  It offers generous memory availability for both Flash and RAM, which are prerequisites for such demanding applications.

The nRF52840 is fully multiprotocol capable with full protocol concurrency. It has protocol support for Bluetooth LE, Bluetooth mesh, Thread, Zigbee, 802.15.4, ANT and 2.4 GHz proprietary stacks.

The nRF52840 is built around the 32-bit ARM® Cortex™-M4 CPU with floating point unit running at 64 MHz. It has NFC-A Tag for use in simplified pairing and payment solutions. The ARM TrustZone® CryptoCell cryptographic unit is included on-chip and brings an extensive range of cryptographic options that execute highly efficiently independent of the CPU. It has numerous digital peripherals and interfaces such as high speed SPI and QSPI for interfacing to external flash and displays, PDM and I2S for digital microphones and audio, and a full speed USB device for data transfer and power supply for battery recharging. 

Exceptionally low energy consumption is achieved using a sophisticated on-chip adaptive power management system.

### PCA10059 USB Dongle

The nRF52840 Dongle is a small, low-cost USB dongle that supports Bluetooth 5.4, Bluetooth mesh, Thread, Zigbee, 802.15.4, ANT and 2.4 GHz proprietary protocols. The Dongle is the perfect target hardware for use with nRF Connect for Desktop as it is low-cost but still support all the short range wireless standards used with Nordic devices. The dongle has been designed to be used as a wireless HW device together with nRF Connect for Desktop. For other use cases please do note that there is no debug support on the Dongle, only support for programming the device and communicating through USB.

It is supported by most of the nRF Connect for Desktop apps and will automatically be programmed if needed. In addition custom applications can be compiled and downloaded to the Dongle. It has a user programmable RGB LED, a green LED, a user programmable button as well as 15 GPIO accessible from castellated solder points along the edge. Example applications are available in the nRF5 SDK under the board name PCA10059.

The nRF52840 Dongle is supported by nRF Connect for Desktop as well as programming through nRFUtil.

[DataSheet nRF52840 PCA10059 USB Dongle rev2.1.1](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/17661709/DataSheet.nRF52840.PCA10059.USB.Dongle.v2.1.1.pdf)

[Schematic and PCB nRF52840 PCA10059](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/17661461/pca10059_schematic_and_pcb.pdf)

## The common rules for the current repo

### Tasks and projects
- All work shold be under tasks in [ESL-project](https://github.com/users/Andrewbooq/projects/2).

### Branches and tags
- A branch for a new workshop should have prefix feature/ and includes Workshop number (feature/WS4_pwm_and_double_click).
- A branch for a bug fix should have prefix bug/ (bug/WS4_cover_debouncing_all_cases).
- After brunch is done (all commits are pushed) it's necessary to Merge the branch to master over Pull Request.
- After the branch is merged to master it's necessary to create a tag with name that is the same to the branch but without any prefix (WS4_pwm_and_double_click).

### Comments
- Comments to Pull Requests should be multiline. First line inludes the workshop number and description (Workshop3: Use GPIO), next line - empty, next line refers to a task number in the project (Related to #17):
  ```
  Workshop3: Use GPIO
  
  Related to #17
  ```
  
## List of lectures
- L01_Linux
- L02_Compilation
- L03_Git
- L04_ARM
- L05_Nordic_SDK
- L06_GPIO
- L07_IRQ_Logs
- L08_Timers_PWM
- L09_PWM_Driver
- L10_NVMC

## Links

Commit message:

Feature/ws5 hvs color picker device (#25)
* Workshop5: Implement HSV color-picker device

README.md, after:

## Intro
Open project of Embedded system laboratory that is used for studying embedded.

## Hardware
The project is based on nRF52840 SoC. Board PCA10059 (USB Dongle) rev 2.0.0.

### nRF52840 SoC

The nRF52840 SoC is the most advanced member of the nRF52 Series. It meets the challenges of sophisticated applications that need protocol concurrency and a rich and varied set of peripherals and features.  It offers generous memory availability for both Flash and RAM, which are prerequisites for such demanding applications.

The nRF52840 is fully multiprotocol capable with full protocol concurrency. It has protocol support for Bluetooth LE, Bluetooth mesh, Thread, Zigbee, 802.15.4, ANT and 2.4 GHz proprietary stacks.

The nRF52840 is built around the 32-bit ARM® Cortex™-M4 CPU with floating point unit running at 64 MHz. It has NFC-A Tag for use in simplified pairing and payment solutions. The ARM TrustZone® CryptoCell cryptographic unit is included on-chip and brings an extensive range of cryptographic options that execute highly efficiently independent of the CPU. It has numerous digital peripherals and interfaces such as high speed SPI and QSPI for interfacing to external flash and displays, PDM and I2S for digital microphones and audio, and a full speed USB device for data transfer and power supply for battery recharging. 

Exceptionally low energy consumption is achieved using a sophisticated on-chip adaptive power management system.

### PCA10059 USB Dongle

The nRF52840 Dongle is a small, low-cost USB dongle that supports Bluetooth 5.4, Bluetooth mesh, Thread, Zigbee, 802.15.4, ANT and 2.4 GHz proprietary protocols. The Dongle is the perfect target hardware for use with nRF Connect for Desktop as it is low-cost but still support all the short range wireless standards used with Nordic devices. The dongle has been designed to be used as a wireless HW device together with nRF Connect for Desktop. For other use cases please do note that there is no debug support on the Dongle, only support for programming the device and communicating through USB.

It is supported by most of the nRF Connect for Desktop apps and will automatically be programmed if needed. In addition custom applications can be compiled and downloaded to the Dongle. It has a user programmable RGB LED, a green LED, a user programmable button as well as 15 GPIO accessible from castellated solder points along the edge. Example applications are available in the nRF5 SDK under the board name PCA10059.

The nRF52840 Dongle is supported by nRF Connect for Desktop as well as programming through nRFUtil.

[DataSheet nRF52840 PCA10059 USB Dongle rev2.1.1](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/17661709/DataSheet.nRF52840.PCA10059.USB.Dongle.v2.1.1.pdf)

[Schematic and PCB nRF52840 PCA10059](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/17661461/pca10059_schematic_and_pcb.pdf)

## The common rules for the current repo

### Tasks and projects
- All work shold be under tasks in [ESL-project](https://github.com/users/Andrewbooq/projects/2).

### Branches and tags
- A branch for a new workshop should have prefix feature/ and includes Workshop number (feature/WS4_pwm_and_double_click).
- A branch for a bug fix should have prefix bug/ (bug/WS4_cover_debouncing_all_cases).
- After brunch is done (all commits are pushed) it's necessary to Merge the branch to master over Pull Request.
- **It's recommended to Merge the new branch after the Workshop is passed to a mentor**, because during passing some bugs/notes/fixes might appear.
- After the branch is merged to master it's necessary to create a tag with name that is the same to the branch but without any prefix (WS4_pwm_and_double_click).

### Comments
- Comments to Pull Requests should be multiline. First line inludes the workshop number and description (Workshop3: Use GPIO), next line - empty, next line refers to a task number in the project (Related to #17):
  ```
  Workshop3: Use GPIO
  
  Related to #17
  ```
  
## List of lectures
- L01_Linux
- L02_Compilation
- L03_Git
- L04_ARM
- L05_Nordic_SDK
- L06_GPIO
- L07_IRQ_Logs
- L08_Timers_PWM
- L09_PWM_Driver
- L10_NVMC

## Links
